Data processing is generally the collection and
manipulation of items of data to produce meaningful information.
In simple words, converting data to
a format in which it can be consumed is data processing.
There're strategies around how it can be done.
For that, you need to learn what extraction,
loading, and transforming mean.
Extraction. Data extraction is the act or process of retrieving
data out of data sources for further data processing or data storage.
In simple words, deriving data from different sources is extraction.
As you already know,
there are many types of data producers.
You might need to get data from a relational DB, from flat files,
from XML files, or other sources depending on what your data requirements are.
You will fetch data from various sources.
Transformation. Once data is extracted,
a series of rules or functions are applied to
this extracted data in order to prepare it for loading to the end target.
In transformation step, there could be
restructuring of data to match destination requirements.
Destination could be a data warehouse or any other type of data consumer.
Loading. Loading is simply putting or loading data to the end target.
End target could be a CSV flat file or a data warehouse.
You might be loading data to a data warehouse that might be used for all lab needs,
or you might be loading data do a data lake used by data scientists.
The first processing strategy that we will explore will be ETL.
ETL stands for extraction,
transformation, and loading of data.
In this type of processing pipeline,
data is first extracted from various sources,
after that, transformed and loaded to
a database or data warehouse from where it is pulled for analysis.
ETL processing pipeline.
This is what an ETL processing pipeline will look like.
Your data might come from your connected devices,
from your data stores,
your mobile app or website,
or you might have data on Cloud.
All this is extracted,
put in a staging area.
Staging area is nothing but an intermediate storage area where transformation happens,
and the transformed data is loaded to a data warehouse.
This data in the data warehouse is ultimately used by various data customers.
Then the concept that is important to understand is
batch processing and stream processing. Batch processing.
Processing massive data with scheduled jobs at once is batch processing.
This works really well in scenarios where a periodic processing of data is needed.
A good example is processing salaries of employees every week,
or e-commerce platform generating invoices for the vendors every month.
Another type of processing is done in almost real time.
As data comes, it is processed,
or as the streams of data come together, they are processed.
This is called stream processing.
Stream processing examples will be payment processing and fraud detection.
These two have to be done in real time.
That is, when they happen.